# Analyzing the Sability of Portfolio Allocation Methods Using CorrGAN

In the field of finance, the way a portfolio is constructed plays a crucial role in achieving optimal investment outcomes. Traditional methods, such as mean-variance optimization and risk-parity, have long been used by practitioners and financial institutions. On the other hand, methods involving machine learning methods such as clustering have gained significant attention in recent years as potential tools for portfolio construction. Regardless of which method is used, investors want their portfolio to be optimally diversified and in turn generate stable returns. Thus, the robustness of a portfolio is usually one of its most important evaluation metrics. 
The purpose of our research is to investigate the in-sample and out-of-sample stability of both traditional and machine learning-powered portfolio allocation approaches using simulated data from the multivariate normal distribution with random drift and correlation matrices from the CorrGAN model (Marti, 2022), which is based on a deep learning model called Generative Adversarial Networks.

After completing the experiments, we found out that when random shocks are applied to return series, the Minimum variance portfolio has very different average in-sample and out-of-sample volatility compared to the case with no shocks, and the volatility of a portfolio constructed using that method becomes more unstable. Even if the volatility was very unstable in the case of random shocks, the average out-of-sample volatility was still lower than that of all other methods. However, this might change if we apply bigger or more frequent shocks to the return series and also increase the number of experiments.

We initially expected that the ML-based approaches would outperform in terms of average portfolio volatility and stability. However, this turned out not to be the case in our experiments. In the future, in order to have more reliable results for the comparison of  traditional and ML-based approaches, we can conduct a larger Monte Carlo experiment by considering more than 50 return series. Also, we can test with different parameters for random shocks, and better approaches to generate realistic correlation matrices or use techniques that directly generate return series resembling real financial time series.

